---
layout: post
title: "Friend"
description: "The most memorable advice that I've ever received is about friendship"
date: 2022-04-04
tags: [gigih, personal]
comments: true
share: true
---

The most memorable advice that I've ever received is about friendship from my father.

When I was a kid, I was a typical child who often played with friends throughout the day. I have a lot of friends, from playmates at home, school friends, tutor friends, etc. You could say I'm a solid friend.

With my behavior like that, my father once advised me. He said, "Your friend is just a **comrade in arms** *(READ: ‘teman seperjuangan’)*, don't prioritize it too much".

At the time, I didn't understand what he meant, even though he had explained what 'comrade-in-arms' meant. Until the time I was in transition to junior high school, then high school, and college.

And I realized…

The friends we know today are temporary friends whom we make friends with because we have one common goal. Remember your close friend when you were in school, you were close friends with him because you were in the same condition and had the same goal, namely graduating from school. After that, we will each walk in different directions.

If so, then there are no true friends?

Until now, I still haven't found the answer, so for now the answer is still “no”.

BUT, this is interesting…

Of the many friends who stop by in our lives, you must have at least one friend who always remembers you, and always contacts you even though it's not often. This kind of friend is a friend that you should take care of because he values your friendship more than you value your friendship with him.

So, if you briefly remember someone's face, don't hesitate to contact them. You may have real friends.
