---
layout: post
title: "How to never miss a deadline that I learned during college"
description: "Day after day, we jump from one deadline to another."
date: 2022-03-29
tags: [gigih, personal]
comments: true
share: true
---

Day after day, we jump from one deadline to another. Of the many deadlines, some of which we must have missed. Missing deadlines is not only caused by poor execution or a lack of skills/resources. Another crucial factor is when we fail to set the right deadline. Here I will share my tips on how to set a deadline that I learned and implemented while in college.

## 1. Don't eat the elephant in one bite
Let's say you have one big task that you have to do, for example, create a website with ReactJs. You also remember it as a complete task that must be completed immediately. I hope you don't do that.

However, you have to break that big task into smaller, more actionable pieces. By breaking it down into small parts, you will feel progress when one of those small tasks is accomplished. This will give you an idea if you are getting closer to completing your task.

## 2. Focus on one task at a time
When you have many tasks to do in one day. You think of doing several tasks at one time so that they can be completed faster. In fact, in time management skills, multitasking is a myth. Multitasking will only make you unfocused and eat up a lot of your energy. It's better if you only do one task at a time before working on another.

## 3. Know your time
Everyone has times when they are most productive and times when they are not very productive. You have to be able to find out when your body is most productive. After that, you can use that time to do tasks that require deep work. And use the time when your body is not very productive to do administrative things like checking email, cleaning the house, etc.

## 4. Use Hofstadter's Law
“Any task you complete will always take longer than expected, even when Hofstadter's Law is taken into account.” These are the words of Douglas Hofstadter, a cognitive scientist who is aware of the uncertainty of the real task. By learning the principle, we can add half or an hour to our predetermined time to deal with potential obstacles.

## 5. Block your time
This is a technique I learned from a book called Make Time by Jake Knapp and John Zeratsky *(I highly recommend you read this book by the way).* All you need is just a Google Calendar. When you have a task, estimate how long it will take you to do it. After that, put your task into google calendar and set a reminder. Blocking your time on the google calendar will make your time more efficient and avoid Parkinson's Law, in which "​tasks expand to fill the time given to them."
